(upbeat music)
- Yeah, super booth-y things we wanted to talk about.
- Yeah, at the time of this recording,
super booth is, I guess, wrapping up.
- Yeah. - This is the last day
of it, a lot of shit revealed.
Was gonna talk about the Zeta-Om Fluxus one.
- Yep, Fluxus, Fluxus.
Not really sure how you pronounce it.
- He was really cool, we met him at Nogcon last year.
- Yeah. - It was all like,
kind of based off of some dreams he was having, right?
Or something along the lines.
I think we talked about this maybe a little before.
- Yeah, I think we talked about it in our first episode,
'cause yeah, we ran into him on Saturday,
that Saturday at Nogcon.
Like we went downstairs, all the manufacturers
were still setting up their shit.
And so we were just kind of wandering around killing time,
and then we saw this one dude, he was already set up,
just like ready to go.
You know, he was the only one that had everything on display,
so we went over and shot the shit with him for a bit,
had no idea who he was or what he was displaying at the time,
we just saw some really colorful--
- Yeah, the crazy buttons, it's like,
yeah, that looks crazy.
- It looks like silicone buttons.
- It looked like digital lucky charms,
glowing from across the room.
It was like-- - And lights are like that.
- Crazy, like they're all different colors, yeah.
I mean, it's not surprising that we were drawn to it.
- Yeah, it was eye-catching.
And he explained that it was a sequencer,
that it was his, I guess, first module that he's taking on,
that he basically quit his day job
to pursue his vision of this module.
- Yeah.
- And when we asked him about the shapes and all that,
he said, yeah, it came from a vision that he had,
or a dream, so-- - Okay.
- Yeah, none of us could remember the name,
so I don't know if we mentioned it by name
in the first episode, we just called it the dream sequencer.
(laughing)
But now it has a name, and it's, yeah,
it's called the Fluxus One, or Fluxus One.
- And now, did he say it was an Arduino,
or a Raspberry Pi Core?
- Ah, he does mention it.
- I think it was Arduino.
- Or maybe it was TNC, CTE.
- TNC, yeah. - It might have a TNC, yeah.
- I guess we can explain what it is
for anyone who isn't hip to the Kickstarter,
or the Super Booth demo video.
Four-track sequencer.
Each track has two CV outs,
and I think one gate out.
- I think one gate. - Per channel, yeah.
- Up to 64 steps total.
And one of the big things that really makes it stand out
is that it has the ARP-step,
which is fucking amazing.
Nothing out there does that right now.
You know what I mean?
Like you can have, there's things out there right now
that can ratchet per step,
and nothing that I know of that can ARP.
Before this was revealed, I had my eye on the WMD ARP-tech,
which I'm still interested in, but at the same time,
I don't know if I'll need it.
- If I have a Fluxus one, you know what I mean?
- Let's see that.
- So don't know how much arpeggiating I need in my rack,
but it seems like the Flux will handle a lot of that.
- Right, yeah.
- Richard Revin did the brief demo showing it.
- For the ARP-teching main.
- No, for Zito-
- Oh, 'cause I just saw the ARP-tech one.
- Did he? - Yeah, I think so.
- I missed that one.
- It looked amazed after you described what Zito-um does.
It seemed less and less useful.
- Yeah, I would agree.
- It seemed like it had a place
before the sequencer came along.
- I think it still does, 'cause it's kind of unique
in that, from what I know about the ARP-tech,
you don't even need to send it a CV sequence.
Like you can generate it using gates.
- Oh, okay, so you send a clock and it's kind of like--
- Right, I put some voltage out there.
- Yeah, it can be like its own standalone,
arpeggiation engine.
So like if you already have a bunch of sequencers
or even gate sequencers and you wanna do some arpeggiating
rhythms, you can get the ARP-tech.
So I don't know if you can do it just by hitting it
with a gate and having it generate a straight ARP
from having no CV going into it or--
- Oh, see, I thought it was taking a sequence
and then doing it from that.
- You can.
- Okay, that was really interesting.
- You can send something and have it,
like quantize it and arpeggiate it,
but I think you can also have it generated just by hitting
with like a gate telling it like what clock speed type of thing
that just generates its own.
- 'Cause my idea was, I mean, like my thought was
taking like basically like a real simple bread and butter
sequencer and then giving it new life,
spicing it up like that.
- Yeah, absolutely, you could do that as well.
- Especially if you've got a sequencer
that you've had for a million years,
you're comfortable using, this would be like something
to augment that as opposed to like the Xenaome.
If you're just gonna dive into that,
you're also going into like a whole new land of
a brand new sequencer, not trying to give new life
to an old sequencer.
- Right, I think there's definitely room in the market
for both, I don't think they're gonna bang heads too much.
- Yeah.
- You know what I mean?
- Well, we could try to start shit now.
- Yeah.
- Like really instigate both of them.
Little drama going on.
- Yeah, the arpe world, too many arps.
- The only way to sort it out is to get demos of both,
you know, it's just.
- Gotta have them demo units.
- I think we need like a PO box or something for that.
- Yeah, where would you be the half one?
- Yeah, let me do it.
- Yeah, I do.
- I've had one for a while,
'cause people steal stuff off my porch.
- That's terrible.
- You heard of that.
(laughing)
- All right, was there anything else about the Xeno?
'Cause I think.
- Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
You were also saying there was something about LFO.
- Oh yeah, it's a big selling point.
- Yeah, that was the other thing, really common, essentially.
Yeah, you can have the CV channels function as a LFO.
- Yeah.
- So you could essentially, just with one track,
have it like, you know, doing sequencing,
gate sequencing, and then have your modulation CV output
like routed back into itself and have it do things
like change the ARP direction.
- Yeah.
- He mentioned in the Super booth video
that like, that is going to be a possibility.
It's just not right this second, it's not working.
So yeah, it just seems like a beast of a sequence.
- I really like the big of a slot.
Like it doesn't take up that much track.
- No, it's pretty compact.
'Cause it utilizes both the buttons for visual feedback
as well as the LCD screen.
So I guess he was able to compact it, you know,
just into the best of both worlds there.
You know what I mean?
Like, smaller than Renee, it's got a lot more outputs
than Renee does, honestly.
Smaller than Renee, it's smaller than audio damage,
S1, smaller than I think the Harvest Man,
Stilson Mark II.
And it has the same amount of channels as the Stilson.
I think the Stilson is the only thing really competing
with it right this minute.
Like I think it kind of blows away S1 personally
'cause C1 does have the ratcheting and the CV outputs,
but it's only for the most part, one channel.
Unless you do some jacking around,
you can turn the CV outs into a second channel
and things like that.
- So what is the Kickstarter price?
- I think it was like $5.75.
- Well, props to him for making it look so.
I love modules that have a little personality.
You can colorful.
- Yeah, and people were already giving them shit on forums
and even at Super Booth.
Like the one dude asked like, you know,
what's the point of these symbols?
And he was just kind of like, you know, he likes them.
You know, he just wanted to do that.
And like someone else on the forums was like,
oh, I'm really sold on this except for the goofy button.
- Sorry, you ate fun.
- And that's exactly what he said.
That's exactly what he said when he answered the question.
Like that was why he did that.
It was he wanted to make something that was appealing
and fun to play with.
- Yeah.
- We wanted something that was like toy like in nature.
- I can respect that.
That's pretty cool.
- I will say I do have a my own complaint.
Even though this is not something I have
or have pre-ordered or anything.
The Jack's on the bottom.
That's a bummer.
- Oh yeah.
- You don't like that?
- No, I want him on the top.
- Really?
- I agree.
- See, I'm the opposite.
I like my sequencing shit towards the top generator.
Like that's why I like the layout of the variegate eight.
'Cause I like to have sequencing at the top rack.
- I want my Jacks out of the way.
I'm kind of the same way.
'Cause I want the sequencers almost at the bottom
with the Jacks going upwards to things.
- Yes, yes.
- So I can just like, you know, variegate that kind
of drives me a little nuts that it's not at least consistent
with the voltage block.
- Right.
- Whatever.
- I feel you, but I disagree.
- See, because like right now, like this case in point,
like the metropolis and the voltage block,
Jacks are at the top.
So my cables when they're going out,
like I have long cables.
There's all this slack dangling then in my interface
with variegate when you have it at the bottom,
you can put the module on the top rack
and the cables can naturally hang down
go where they need to go.
- The gates are pouring down into the rest of the module.
Not flowing up.
- Right.
- Yes.
- Oh, 'cause then you can start using the saving functions.
Is there like some sort of like--
- Savings for suckers dude.
- Wow.
- To start from scratch every time.
You can, it'll save the voltage block stuff to the variegate.
- Thank you for giving me a serious answer.
- Early Bird Special is still available
when it was 575.
- One per person.
Comes with stickers.
The sticker pack.
- Oh, fucking those stickers.
- I like fucking stickers dude.
- I like having stickers and rarely using them
or putting them on things.
Just like this huge fucking box of stickers.
- Yeah, I'm the same way dude.
I mean, I'll slap them on my laptop and my modular cases,
but for the most part,
I just like collecting stickers.
I have an entire box over there full of fucking stickers
that I've been collecting since I was like 11.
- Sameer.
- I take the ones I don't like
and I give them to people that I sell modules to.
- Do you really?
- Yeah, just throw them in the box.
It's like, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah.
- It's a free swag.
- And a slight fuck you.
'Cause the stickers you don't like.
It's like here you do something with a shitty--
- It started because I had like those void parties
from like 2014.
I had like literally hundreds of stickers from them.
Like these are cool, but like, man,
just like get them out of here.
So everybody that I shipped something to
has one of those.
- Yeah, I usually just toss in like broken glass
and syringes with everything that I sell.
- You gotta clean that up.
- Get it.
- Some nails, rusty pushpins, unpaid bills.
- Clip your toenails from into the box.
(laughing)
- Give me bad head teeth, man.
- Don't forget to give me good feedback on muffs.
Free swag.
- Toenail clippings.
- Cat litter.
- Little screw bag full of cat litter.
(laughing)
- Is that M3 or M2.5 cat litter?
- I can't wait for the thread that shows up.
New question.
What am I supposed to do with this cat litter?
(laughing)
- Which way does the red stripe go on the cat litter?
- That's what the cat litter's for, man.
- In summary.
- Yeah, this one looks very promising.
I wish him the best of luck with his Kickstarter.
- Nice dude, nice dude.
- Nice dude.
- Yeah, and it's solid to see someone new to the scene
who isn't just trying to be a crowd pleaser.
- Yeah.
- Like he's just doing his own thing,
pursuing his own vision.
It's not like he was sitting there thinking,
oh, what is everyone asking for on the forums?
You know, what can I make that'll cash in?
He's pursuing something completely original
and hoping that people just enjoy what he's doing.
- You know what I mean?
- Anyone who starts there, this came from a dream.
I'm pretty much on board.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, go for it.
Let's see what you get in there.
- This came from a vision I had in a dream.
- It was sold.
- I don't even know what it does.
- Okay, so there was a, there was other things on our list
for Super Booth related things.
- Digitact.
- Yes.
- That's cool to see it actually working, making sound.
- Became a little more clear.
- Yeah, a little more clear on the features.
Like big one for me is I was curious about,
will the micro timing and the trigger conditions
apply to the midi side of it,
which it definitely didn't on the Octatrack
'cause none of that stuff existed.
And they confirmed that.
So that's a huge plus for me.
That's just gonna be awesome.
I have a midi sequencer like that built into it.
I was worried it was just gonna be
the Octatrack sequencer, which it's simple and it's nice,
but like it's a little, I want something a little more,
a little spoiled by the rhythm trigger conditions
and having those in midi will be pretty nice.
- I saw that he mentioned there was parameter locking.
- Yeah, everything parameter locking control all like function,
if you remember that from the machine drum.
So if you can take like hit the function button
and control the decay for all the eight tracks
at the same time, that's kind of a neat thing.
Seeing the sampling of the device was cool
because it's really easy to take like any recording.
Still kind of odd that it's a mono box.
I kind of get it, but if it was stereo,
I think it would be like that much cooler.
- Yeah.
- But again, in that it can resample itself internally
really easily, that's like another big selling point.
- But it started to become clear like the corners
that had to be cut in order to get
that ridiculous price point.
- Is stereo really that much of a price jump though?
- Oh, I guess, but I mean, if you're doing it in stereo
and you wanna have true stereo,
I'd imagine there's a lot of--
- You need to double the memory.
- Yeah, double a few things, but still that like--
- It's not just track with stereo, you know?
- Yeah.
- But it's not just a matter to putting another jack on there.
You know what I mean?
- I mean, I think there's a lot of considerations
that need to be made.
- Yeah.
I mean, obviously, yeah, each sample would be double in size
and I guess your working project memory
would have to be double, but--
- And as it stands now, it's what, 64 meg from project?
- Yeah, like for the active project
and then a gig on the plus drive.
- Okay.
- But it's all gotta be loaded in memory.
One cool thing though is they finally like,
some people don't like this,
but there are no kits anymore.
It's all saved to the pattern, even the BPM.
So you don't have to worry--
- That's an improvement, I'm sure.
- For me, that's like great, finally.
You know, I don't really care about kits.
I just wanna hear like what I played back
without having to like worry about ruining it.
- So that's good to see.
I think they're learning like to make something
that's a little simpler, but hopefully,
like we said before, that they continue to make
some flagship devices that have a little more.
- Yeah, I'm still surprised about the stereo thing
'cause it's like, yeah, right before this,
they're released heat, which is--
- That's a good point, you know what I mean?
- You know what I mean?
- Stereo distortion, you can run your stuff through it
and then their next item to follow up with it--
- Mono. - Mono.
I'm just like, okay, I use the rhythm
for sampling a lot and that's Mono only as well.
And I was kind of hoping this thing would make me,
would inspire me to buy it, offer something more
than what the rhythm can already do
if using it as a sequencer.
It's kind of the same, you know?
- Yes, very similar.
- Same tree conditions, which is cool,
but nothing new as far as tree conditions go
and still Mono and it's just like a--
- Yeah.
- And it's still basically just a phrase sampler, you know what I mean?
Like, you're not gonna be doing any Octatrack long--
- Not long samples, samples, yeah,
it's like all meant for one shot, drum.
- There was some cool stuff that he demoed a chunk
about setting the start points
and how you can actually see the waveform now
and that was really cool 'cause it seems like,
you know, in the Octatrack or the rhythm,
it's just kind of like zero to 128,
and you kind of get that much resolution,
and you kind of gotta see, oh, hope it's somewhere in there,
but this seemed like it was much finer control
over like getting into those slices.
- Now, is there a way to actually control
the start and end points on each of these samples
as you're playing a part of rhythm?
So that seems kind of cool, so you could actually maybe
have something a little bit longer
and then not too long, obviously,
but you could screw around with the start and end points
and get a little bit of variation from that.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, there was some interesting,
like they demoed some kind of granular stuff,
but it's nothing, you can't really do right now
except it looks like there's finer control
over how deep you can zoom in on the start and end,
which is cool. - Yeah, you did mention
that it's new encoders.
- Yeah, they looked really nice.
We'll see how it is, like I've got one,
I'm just waiting for the UPS notification
whenever they do chip it, but I don't think that,
it looks, I've never seen the MIDI demoed at all.
It looks like they haven't even really started with it.
- What is the ETA on shipping?
- They said May, it's just going.
- Oh, really?
- Yeah, okay, I will.
- So I thought this was going to be like end of summer.
- Mm-mm.
- Well, that's weird, 'cause that's one month away
and they're still kind of a bit secretive, I guess,
about everything that this thing can and can't do.
- Totally, Super Booth was his first time
that actually made sound that anybody could really hear
and the first time they talked about a lot of features
that were in question.
- I think it's still confusing.
I think there's still people talking online,
like asking questions, like,
does this thing have a fucking drum engine in it?
It's like, nope, it's a sampler, pure and simple.
- It's a month away.
- Right.
- People should be able to start planning.
If I'm going to buy this, this is what it can do.
- Right.
- And no one can do that yet.
- Right, like, did they jump the gun
because of the MPC live and the MPC X thing?
Like, it was hard to tell if it was some like,
oh shit, we're going to get like,
everybody's going to want this
and they're going to like try to pre-order it
and save money before they know we're out.
- It was like a two part issue, in my opinion.
Like, part of it was being secretive with the specs
and what it actually, you know, can, can't do the details.
And then the other part was some of it
just seemed intentionally misleading.
Like, we discussed in a previous episode.
And you know what I mean?
Like, the labels on the buttons,
you would presume that those are in relation
to like the drum synthesis engine that it has inside of it
and it doesn't have a drum synthesis engine.
And so it's like, why the fuck are these buttons pre-labeled?
- And if you're being playful
and that's, you can put whatever you want there,
just fucking say it.
We just thought that'd be funny.
That's where the cowbells should go.
But we're not actually giving you a cowbell.
- Yeah, like, like, last episode,
the data lines explanation for that was,
well, it's a throwback to our classic machine drum.
That's not a throwback 'cause this thing isn't,
in any way, she'll perform a fucking machine drum.
So it just seems intentionally misleading.
I don't know.
- It was just silly for me because all the electron products,
if you get some rubbing alcohol,
you could just take all the labels off anyway.
The first thing I would do if I got this thing,
I'm cowbell your first.
You're gone.
- I don't even wanna see that word.
- Yeah, but we'll see.
- Well, you'll see.
- I will see.
- And then we'll all see.
- In one month.
- Yeah, hopefully.
I'm excited 'cause I definitely wanna have it
in front of the module or just picking up
drum samples really quickly.
Like I was telling Dave earlier,
I've had the same samples on my rhythm for a while now.
Like the same 'cause it's a little annoying
to get them on there and then you don't wanna take it off
'cause it's like, oh, I did use it in that pattern.
And then you're kinda stuck.
So I met some point, like I wanna,
we'll see if I can do it, like clear off the rhythm
and just start completely fresh again,
but right now it's like every bank and every pattern
is full with all this stuff that I'm trying to record
or like is part of live set.
So I have multiple projects on there still,
that's kinda why I stopped using it live at the moment.
Like for a while, I was gonna bring it out
with the teraz and the modular.
And then like over time, after doing some practice,
that's not, I just kinda slowly took the rhythm
out of the live setup.
It's too complicated.
Like you said, like if I decide just one night,
oh, I don't want this sample on here anymore,
but I find out it's like glocked
into a couple of different patterns
and I forgot and it just fucks up the whole project.
So I don't know, it's more like a studio tool
for me at this point.
And--
- Had the sounds from it, ended up on the teraz?
- Yes. - Yes.
- In fact for the last, that tour we did,
December I ended up bouncing a lot of things out
of the rhythm and ended up going right into the teraz.
- And that's the thing, like I can't even play a live set
without the rhythm now.
It's like, that's the only drum machine I'll be able to use.
So I'm hoping the Digitak might cover some of that.
- So you just wanna like sample chunks of the modular
into it live, basically?
- Yeah, that's pretty cool.
- I do that a lot.
They end up in the rhythm sometimes,
but they usually end up in the octa track.
And that's kinda gone.
- Right. - Three of ones on the way
and the Digitak two, like pretty big samplers.
So those are like, I don't have much sampling stuff
at all right now.
Just the radio music. - That's weird.
Yeah, yeah. - 'Cause you're like
the sampling dude.
- I like some samples.
I like cutting that shit up.
- Is that the segue into the tip top one discussion?
- Oh yeah, tip top one.
- Yeah.
- No.
- No, it is.
Tip top one, I thought sounds fantastic.
It did like, especially the tempo pack on there
was like 2496 stuff and I don't play with stuff
like at that range much.
But when you pitch it down,
there's like some awesome high frequency,
like ghosty kind of stuff that comes out
that normally is just gone, I feel.
So it was cool to like pitch something down
and be like, yeah, that sounds all right.
But no display, like just the rotary.
If it was a pot instead of a rotary,
you could at least be like, oh, at like two o'clock,
I've got like my bass drums there or something.
But with this, you can keep turning it left
and you never get to like the first sample in the list
and you just stop.
It's just constantly rotating around.
So it's like total wheel of fortune live.
So without some method of queuing it,
it's just, I don't know where I'm at right now.
And that's like kind of--
- So there's no way to do that independently
from the knob with like CV and be like,
okay, this voltage, it'll play that sample.
- No, that is still relative to the,
- There's this sequence mode where apparently
if you have it in this mode and you hit it
with a voltage, it'll start playing these samples
in a certain sequence.
But I just wanted like a knob on the voltage block
to correspond to like what I thought
this thing would be as a reset.
- You can't really do that from what I know.
- And even in that mode, it's only a range of 32 samples, right?
- Yeah.
- And you can't like exceed that.
- I think you could do 64, but still it was like
a lot to go through with that, don't we?
- Gotcha, okay.
- And you know, you only get your pitch
for that one sample fixed.
You can't set the pitch of samples on there
and have it retain that.
So you can't ever get like retained pitch up and down.
The jack layout is really confusing.
They have the labels are offset to the point where
the jack is associated with the printing shifted.
So it's actually at the jack above.
So the text is closer to that jack.
So I was always like, oh wait, the CV in the gate?
No, it's the gate.
I put it in the CV again.
Like for whoever they had beta tested,
it was probably more like, oh yeah,
it does the things you said it should do.
But nobody ever took a step back to be like,
well, if you did this though, it'd be like 1,000 times
more useful.
There was kind of some thrashing on the forum
when people were like, well, just let me set a value
in the text file for this thing and just have it
always start on this sample.
So I know every time it's like here.
And they were like, if we do that,
we're going to add another loop to the code
and it's going to mess up the latency,
like the point to five milliseconds latency.
Yeah.
But it's not, I don't have one anymore
because of that reason, right?
Yeah, so the same discussion going about the save state.
Yes.
If you turn it off and back on, it doesn't retain any
of your settings.
People were saying like, can we please add this?
And then I guess Ger replied and said, we do that,
that's more code and then we're going to fuck up the latency.
But these weren't minor grievances for a lot of people.
Right.
You know what I mean?
Like you said, there's a lot of people
who are just deciding to not continue to use it
because of these little things.
Things that I guess tip-top thought were little things
that people wouldn't mind.
Right.
Or actually really hurting usefulness of this module.
Because in the studio, it doesn't matter.
Just dial up the sound you want and like start recording.
And live, I was kind of fumbling around like, oh,
there it is.
Even the radio music is so easy to be like, oh,
here's the LED for the bank.
I'll go to bank 2 and I'll scroll through
and there's my sample.
It's really quick to kind of get where you had your stuff.
I've never messed with the one or the radio music one,
but I do have the Pico drum from Erika.
Oh, yeah.
And it's-- I kind of like it.
You can save the state and then you have to load it again.
But at least it has the ability to do it.
Yeah.
And you can also adjust the pitch and have it scan
different samples while you configure that.
And it uses a weird little like six LED display
to tell you what samples you're on.
So it doesn't tell you like, buying number.
It looks like little alien symbols basically.
You know what I mean?
That lights up a different way.
Yeah, so you know there's some reference.
Yeah.
These are all things that the one does not have.
And I think the one is more expensive, right?
I can't remember the price for the Pico,
but I think it's cheaper than that.
Yeah, I think it's a little cheaper.
And you can do two drums on the Pico.
It's pretty cool.
Yeah.
That you just flip the switch.
Do they have their own gate and CV?
They share the CV.
Yeah.
OK.
But they have two dedicated gate inputs.
Oh, that's cool.
And then you flip the switch to tell it which CV
you wanted to be affecting or which drum the knob is controlled.
Oh, that sounds infinitely better than the one.
Yeah, it seemed a little better thought out.
Yeah.
Than the one.
That's why I bought the Pico.
Like, I bought the Pico at the same time the one was announced.
And so I was kind of torn at first, which one to get.
And then the more I read on specs,
I just kind of leaned more towards the Pico.
And so far, I'm happy with it.
Get in like it.
I'm surprised that people are buying the four packs of the ones.
Because it seems like they could make a bigger module that
maybe had a little more control.
But then that goes away from exactly what they tried to do.
So I get it.
It just didn't work for me.
It's not what I want.
Or if you bought the four pack, that's essentially
the cost of the bitbox.
Yeah.
Or the 301.
At that point, it was the 301.
Yeah, at which point.
Which has given you like 12 times more power.
So it's like, I don't know why.
Yeah, I don't see the appeal of the four pack.
If you just need a simple little drum sample module,
then I can see just toss someone in there.
But if you're looking at four of them, obviously,
your drum needs exceeds that that the one can do.
And it's time to look at something like bitbox or something.
So you have to use the cart.
You can't--
Yeah.
--the port directly into it.
No.
That's another thing.
It doesn't sample.
It's sample playback.
Right, right.
However, that is one thing that I'll give the tip top one
is that it's interface for putting sounds into it
is definitely easier than the Pico.
Like the Pico, you have to have a special adapter
and it connects to the back.
And then you upload shit that way.
Yeah, whereas like the one, it's all in a little card.
And it's up front.
Yeah.
So it's definitely got one up on the Pico in that regard.
I'm eyeing up that audio damage.
Oh, yeah.
That end-so looks awesome.
Yeah, the end-so.
Like it's the same--
I think it's the functionality that we wanted.
It's a lot closer to like, hey, let me take a loop.
Maybe do some replicant stuff with it
and just kind of like have a bank of loops
that I can actually sample onto this thing really easily.
They did do--
I don't know if you guys saw a video.
I think it was just yesterday posted up from Super Booth
regarding it.
Like he plays around with it a little bit.
Oh, yeah, I saw part of that.
It looks good.
What stood out to you as being appealing about it?
The interface for one thing.
It looks super fucking nice and easy to use.
OK.
From what I can tell, there's going to be other modes
where you can slice, which is what I am really excited about.
You know what I mean?
I want to be able to record a beat in my modular
and then flip over to the recorded beat
and slice and dice the fucking thing.
You want modular recycle?
Exactly.
Yeah.
And I think that's what this is going to do.
He said it's modeled after the Looper in Ableton,
which he was talking about a replicant mode.
Oh, yeah.
Like the VST.
And that had some pitch shifting for slice, things like that.
And so I don't know to what level of craziness
it'll be able to achieve.
But even at its most basic as a looper,
it still seems very appealing.
So all the other shit that he's adding to it
will be, I think, a nice bonus for sure.
So what's the ETA?
I mean, how much time do you think he's
going to have to develop and add to shit to it?
I don't know.
Yeah, I didn't hear what he did.
I don't think he really announced it.
He said that basically they were focusing on the EOS verb
first, which is now out as of--
that was like their other Superbooth reveal,
was the EOS and the Anso.
And I have the EOS.
I pre-ordered it.
It's here.
I've been using it.
Right.
But yeah, I'm definitely keeping an eye on the Anso.
But 301 seems a bit too expensive and too much for me.
But I can definitely see it being up your alley.
Yeah, I'm excited.
It feels like the stuff that I wanted the OctaTrack to be
is kind of in there.
I didn't use the OctaTrack for loops as much as I did for one
shots that I wanted to kind of mess up
and have a strange sequence.
I think that thing working with the varigate and the voltage
block will be a lot of fun.
But it's very beta.
I know he just redid the UI for everything.
So there's this release for the 301 that's literally just
like a new plugin architecture and an SDK for people
to make more plugins and stuff on their own outside of him
being available to do it.
So--
Yeah, it's interesting to see so many samplers just
explode on the scene.
Not only just in modular, but just stand alone too.
There's a lot going on with sampling right now.
Yeah, and even that radio music, he just
added time stretching to that.
Oh, really?
Yeah, and I think they--
I don't know if this was in or not,
but some ability to change pitch in the radio music.
Because when I got the radio music module a couple weeks ago,
I used it.
I'm like, oh, it plays back a sample.
This is very static, though.
You're just literally scrubbing the start point
to go through the stations that you have.
So that's it.
That's all you can do with it.
It'd be cool to play back a long sample in a small module.
It's awesome.
But I have it on the chord machine,
mostly just to play back.
That firmware is pretty cool.
Sounds pretty good.
I don't have anything that's poly in my modular cell
for a little hits like that.
It's pretty fun.
Yeah, it sounded like a compact techno machine.
Yeah, it pretty much is.
Get some rave stabs out of there.
Yeah.
It's also thinking the opposite of--
it's the drone machine.
So you have a 1950s radio announcement about nuclear fallout.
And you have that behind your drone.
And it's just 20 minutes.
People talking about what you're
supposed to do when the bombs drop
and letting that go while you're going to town on another drone.
That's funny because I think that is literally
one of the default samples that you get with it.
Are you serious?
People talking about nuclear accidents and stuff like that.
There's a big community of sample packs for that thing
that you can download because it's
the raw format, not wave.
So people just make like, oh, here's like 20 gigs
because it'll take a 32 gig card or whatever.
Yeah, yeah, there's a ton of stuff you can put on there.
Call it a day.
Wow.
Nice to hear it.
Good for me to call it cliche.
I'm so fucking creative.
I was interested in having chords,
but now that I have the SIG-UTS deluxe, it was coming.
Oh, yeah.
My way I'm real stoked about the chords mode on that thing
because I like the lo-fi 8-bit chords.
That's what makes this cool is it.
It sounds kind of shitty.
Does it?
It sounds like it's even modded after the Omni-Chord
or whatever those kind of--
it's not very high res, and that's
the part that I like about it.
It's like when you have the sine wave mode,
it's just really dark and kind of like, hmm.
Kind of grimy.
Yeah, it's not like just hitting a VST chord or something.
I don't think that would have a little bit of character.
Yeah, yeah.
Now how many different wave forms are in there?
Oh, they just-- before it was just four,
you got a saw square sine and then some like dirtier saw
sine, but then they added another update where you get four
more now.
And you can actually put your own wave table on it now.
You can upload a little 8-bit wave tables
and it will read them as the other four.
Cool.
Oh, but there's still variations of like square?
No, it's just whatever you want to put out.
Yeah, they just added that like a couple weeks ago.
Have you scooted around with that?
Nope.
It's funny because I couldn't get it to work the other night.
Like it's-- the one thing about teensies that I don't like
and this too is that you have to like--
if you want to update it to change the mode,
you've got to pull it out of the modular and then update it
in the back.
I don't recommend it as a kit.
I think it's a little difficult.
It's really tight.
Like it's a really tight--
I almost think--
--janky.
When I was buying all the knobs from Thonk in my last order,
I was like, yeah, maybe I'll toss in a chord machine kit.
Yeah.
Is it the same sort of like risers you need to do?
There's like a three.
It's like a stack of three of them.
And it's like kind of bendy.
Dude, it's not--
I was like, oh, it's only a 4-HB module.
I could probably handle that.
Yeah.
But yeah.
It should be--
I would have probably royally screwed it up.
It should be 8-HP, a little wider, with like a better,
more stable base.
It's not the best design.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I guess I could just talk about EOS in general.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
As it stands now, it's my fourth dedicated reverb module
in my setup.
Currently, not like over time.
Yeah, currently.
It's number four.
If you include clouds as a reverb.
Yeah.
The olive herb, I'm sure.
I mean, I use it every once in a while, but I just--
I don't like dedicating clouds to a reverb.
Yeah.
I feel like it's a nice bonus feature in there.
But yeah, I have the herb verb.
I have the halls of a holocart for ZDSP, have clouds.
And now I have the audio damage, EOS, and not a morphogen.
And not a morphogen.
Oh, yeah.
A morphogen.
Yeah, I mean, I like it overall.
I don't feel it can compare to any of the other reverbs,
either.
I have four, and I think they all hold their own.
So where do you see yourself using this over the other ones?
Mostly on percussion things.
I feel like the halls of a hola is still the king
when it comes to big spaces, big halls, giant sounding reverb.
Very lush, very large.
And it can handle hot and distorted sounds
and even make that sound nice, whereas I can't do that
with any of the other ones.
And even though the EOS is kind of like, I don't know,
I guess, advertised as such.
Being able to go into infinite mode
and have long decay times and things like that,
it just sounds nowhere near as lush, in my opinion.
I use the EOS plugin a lot, like with Prometheus burning
on drum sounds.
And I feel like that's where I get the most.
I feel like the plate mode is at strong point
over the Super Hall mode, which is weird,
because it was designed by the same guy, like Sean Costello
made the halls of a hola and cart and all those plugins.
And he worked with audio damage on this, but it's just,
I don't know, it's just not very good, in my opinion,
for the Super Hall stuff.
Now, you mentioned the VST, which you used a lot of.
How does it compare to the VST?
It sounds just like it.
You know what I mean?
It's a little different.
It doesn't have the base multiplier.
What was that?
I don't remember that.
It had the ability to boost the low end.
So it really was like those old radios
with the base boost button.
Kind of.
It was more than an EQ.
It was almost like it let that energy kind of build up.
Okay, right.
Right back.
Gotcha.
Yes.
Yeah.
Like in the reverb, you could achieve very dark sounds
with it and also heavy.
Oh, okay.
You know, and I like that a lot.
You could get some very dark damp,
bassy reverbs out of it.
And I use--
It doesn't have that.
It doesn't have the base boost.
It has color control though, which you can CV, which is nice.
Like at 12 o'clock, it's kind of neutral.
You turn it to the right and it's kind of like a high pass
and it'll bring out more of the high end harmonics.
And if you turn it counterclockwise,
it starts to like dampen and kind of bring out
the more dark damp sounds, which you can't get as dark and bassy
as you can with the VST.
That functionality is just not there.
And that's one reason why I like that on drums a lot too.
You can make some really dark, plated, you know,
reverby percussion sounds.
So that's probably where I'll be using the module as well.
Whereas like herb herb, I always
felt as like good for like metallic percussion stuff
and just weird sound design shit.
And four different modules, no overlap at all.
Not overkill in any way.
And if someone released another one,
you wouldn't hesitate to give that fifth.
I've already looked at the sonic potions one,
which is still not out yet.
Oh yeah.
But I am curious about what that one does.
I like reverbs almost as much as distortion for shaping sound,
you know.
That brings me to a good thing we could probably talk about
though, is those channel strip modules.
Oh yeah.
By feedback.
Yeah.
Which is a company I've never heard of before.
It was called Feedback Modular.
Where are they from?
Do you remember?
I have no idea.
I don't think it's United States though.
Because the currency was--
Yeah, there was by default.
Right.
There was some currency conversion on the website
when I checked it out.
But basically they made a line of three different types of--
They were emulating three old mixers.
They were a channel each.
Yes.
Of these old mixers.
And they were being a little bit cagey about who they actually
were.
Yeah, because I don't think they're allowed to say.
Right.
Because copyright and frangering are not--
Considering how much desk space it takes
to have these old mixing consoles that you're only using
for a one trick pony.
Yes.
Barely works still.
You know, and you can stream it down to one or two modules.
Very appealing.
Yeah.
And they had a ton of audio samples,
which was also really helpful.
Very much--
And they all did sound different.
Yes.
There was a wild variation.
Whether or not they sound true to what they're emulating,
or it doesn't even have an emulation.
It's supposed to be a direct port almost.
Like you use the same components that were per channel.
But you can kind of decipher the code names.
One was meant to be the old boss, I guess that's the BX8.
Yeah, I think.
One was supposed to be--
Wait, are you going to be in trouble
by unveiling their code?
No, as long as they don't name it,
as long as they can't get in trouble.
But what was that, like, KMX or KM8 from boss to--
Was it two different bosses?
I think so.
OK.
And then the one was the CR1604 or whatever.
Yes.
Because it was the CR something then.
Which is basically like 1202, like that old order style
AMP design.
Which was the one that was most appealing to me.
Yeah.
Because before they moved it to--
when they were still made in the US,
and they were slightly different than when they made them
all in China.
And their talent changed or whatever.
Yeah.
They all sounded good.
They all had different character.
And I would like to see how they stack up, like literally,
like how they stack up if I run like one into another to another.
You know what I mean?
Compared to like an actual mixer, like can they handle that?
It would sound the old insert effect trick.
Right.
Yeah.
Could you actually just make like a Frankenstein mixer?
Exactly.
Just like one of each of those.
That'd be cool.
I'm looking forward to getting at least two of them
and trying them out.
Because you're not expensive.
I have an order with them yet.
But it's definitely on my to buy list.
I want to try them out, put them through their paces.
I've been using my Mackey 1202.
It's just TR8 is always running into it.
I don't have a few pedals in it.
Just because the TR8's a little-- you know, it's like a little--
I don't like it when it's clean.
Right.
Much, exactly.
For the size and the price, it's definitely
like the feeling.
I mean, something I've talked about a lot.
You know?
And I wish somebody would make this as a module.
And then without much fanfare, somebody
did for three different mixing consoles.
You know, I mean, like out of nowhere, just stumbled upon us
and go, it's what we've always discussed.
It actually exists now.
I need to give it a shot.
I bought one solely because of you being like, look,
here's what it does.
It's like, who's shit?
Like 120 bucks?
It's like distortion pedal, you know?
Yeah.
It's like, that's the sound.
It's like four distortion pedals.
Yeah.
True.
That's the--
That VGA-- oh, yeah.
That dope for a VGA module with the VGA connector.
I think ADAC makes one too.
That's a damn good idea with like 13 CV.
Yeah.
That's one of the new ones, right?
Yeah, yeah.
That's the super booth.
That's really an idea.
I only wish there was like a VGA connector
on the side of this case so I could just hook up two cases
and then have like a bust between them.
Oh, that'd be cool, yeah.
Yeah.
Can you give the rundown on that?
Like I watched the Super booth reveal,
but he didn't talk about some of the stuff
that I wanted to hear him talk about, like,
the performance mixer and shit.
I guess we can talk about that later.
Oh, yeah.
I was curious what the hell the connection thing was all about.
Yeah, it's just another way instead
of having 13 long cables connecting two systems,
just use the VGA cable instead.
Hook all the stuff you want to into these inputs or outputs
and then when you connect the two VGA cable,
you would need two modules, one in each system.
And then you would connect VGA between them
and then all the connections would be together.
Like bridging those two systems, basically.
Okay, and how many connections can each one handle?
13, I think total on the VGA cable.
So that his module has like 13 connectors
and it's just like bidirectional at that point.
It's like a fancy molten.
So you wouldn't have to remember what goes where.
'Cause it's just like it'll line up.
Yep, just patch it into the modules as you want,
connect the VGA cables.
All right, well that is pretty slick.
Yeah, that's okay.
'Cause I've been, you know,
you know how it is writing down patch.
You know how it is.
Or like using this thing or like trying to write this.
Write down what this should be plus like a cell phone note
and then like 40 minutes before a show starts
try to repatch everything together.
Be like, oh yeah, it's right.
And how much HP is it for the module?
I think it was eight.
It might have been a little more.
Probably a little more in other things.
Probably worth it though.
Yeah, I mean, I know last time I performed live
with more than one case, I totally fucked up my patch.
And I had to like just kind of wing it, you know what I mean?
Like repatch something on the fly
and it did not end up how I had it, you know,
in practice session.
But yeah, that caught my eye.
They're dope for announce a bunch of shit.
Yeah, it was a performance mixers.
Yeah, I mean, he had like a lot of interesting stuff
with the thing that really caught my eye was performance mixers.
Unfortunately, the video, Super booth video
didn't really touch upon that much.
But.
And that was, they were really announcing
the voltage controlled one.
'Cause they had like two other versions
of the regular non-voltage controlled performance mixer
that they've changed over the years.
Like putting the return on it.
The A1 that it's huge.
Yep, the P and the O, right?
Yeah.
The P is the actual, I think performance mixer
and the O is the output.
The output is still the same.
These new ones still connect up to that for their output.
But the mixer itself is different now.
I see.
Because it has all the voltage control,
compatibility.
It also has a shit ton of LEDs now.
But it's still basically that four channel mixer.
Yeah, yeah.
With the knobs, like the Dopurnobs.
I mean, if you looked at it, it looks the same
except you'll see more LEDs on it.
The new one is the A135 something.
And the older ones, the A138.
It adds the LEDs because you kind of need them
if you're gonna utilize the expansions.
So you can see where it's at.
The one expansion offers CV control over everything.
The volume, the panning, the aux send.
It's four different parameters
that you have voltage control over for each channel.
And it's just a separate expansion.
And then they also have another expansion.
It's a quad envelope follower.
So that essentially, you can generate voltages
from your four inputs on the mixer,
have them routed to the control voltage expansion
and control other channels.
So you can do ducking, pseudo compression, hand control.
Yeah, the side chain basically, things of that nature.
And there's also still dedicated outputs.
So you can route those elsewhere in your rig too,
the envelopes that are generated from that.
So if you had all these expansions
and one of these mixers,
how much space would it end up taking?
A good grip in space.
It's not the most compact setup.
You know, it's affordable though.
The price is real good.
Dude, it's like, it's probably like half the price, I think.
Oh, that's awesome.
With all the expansions, then say like the WMD one.
Oh yeah.
I mean, the WMD is more channels too.
You know what I mean?
It's apples and oranges, I guess.
It just depends on what you need.
Personally, I don't need that many channels
that the WMD offers.
So like the Dober one's really appealing to me,
especially with all the expansions.
It's four channels, but you also have four channels,
CB control over the parameter.
You're envelope followers and that all gets
outputted to the old A138.0.
Okay.
So you get two outs, you're left right,
depending on how you have it panned
and your aux send and return, which is cool.
Yeah, that's always cool too
because you can use, those channels are VCA's too.
So you don't need a VCA and you can just have it there
on the mixer, which is pretty sweet.
(upbeat music)
I just love his name.
It's like a character out of "Frag a Rock" or something.
(laughing)
Uncle traveling, "Deter Doper."